breaking news now because Hamas has
named its Gaza leader Yaya sinoa as
chief of the group following isma
hania's assassination in tan on July the
31st isma hania of course being the
leader of the political wing of Hamas uh
Yaya Sina has been the group's leader in
Gaza since 2017 let's speak to nor OD
who's in ralo in the occupied West Bank
um Noah is Han obviously his death was a
huge blow for Hamas had been involved in
political uh negotiations to bring about
an end uh to the ceasefire is now that
his replacement has been named Yaya
sinma what does this mean for Hamas what
does this mean for hopes of Peace tell
us
more well yir let's talk first about the
man this is a 62y old man someone who
was imprisoned for a um he was sentenced
to four consecutive life sentences he
was released from Israeli prison in
2011 and he has skyrocketed to a an
influential position in Hamas leading it
in Gaza the choice of Hamas to name him
the leader of the movement now puts Gaza
front and center of not just the events
on the ground but certainly of the
Dynamics in the Hamas movement and it
really sends a signal as far as
negotiations and ceasefires concerned
concerned Gaza calls the shots if you
were expecting the assassination to
bring in someone who might be more
amenable to a solution more amenable to
a ceasefire that is not very favorable
then Hamas now has made its choice and
it has really brought Gaza back to the
center um and and given it as much power
as one can imagine and it's really uh a
choice that very few expected uh a lot
of contenders a lot of names were Flo
around yya sinir was not one of them
so and no yay sinir since at least the
beginning of this recent conflict as a
man that has somewhat lived in the
shadows in in Gaza to have him now in a
prominent role
potentially as a public negotiator would
be a huge step for Yaya Sina given that
he has been pretty much targeted by
Israel as being somebody that they
potentially want to
eliminate absolutely yya senir is on the
top of the Israel hit list for Hamas
leaders he is someone that is wanted and
pursued by the Israelis but now the
shots are in his hands the decisions
will be uh uh he will have the final
call and so it will be H interesting to
see how Hamas will maneuver this any
decisions any negotiations happening
outside of Gaza will have to filter
through all the hoops uh that have to be
taken in terms of security in order to
get to yya sinir so that he can have the
final say so that might complicate and
prolong any negotiation process but it's
also a message to Israel that Hamas is
United that there are no differences
that there won't be any Schism between
Hamas outside of Gaza and Hamas inside
of Gaza there was a lot of debate on
whether the assassination of isma hania
a pragmatist a political leader would
imp power or embolden the hardliners
this is a decision that will take a lot
to digest but it also really speaks
volumes about the multi-layered and very
sophisticated decision-making process in
Hamas itself uh there is a very you know
a a a clear process of decision- making
in Hamas there are layers of that and
people take uh their roles very
seriously they vote on these decisions
and the votes are respected and so senir
was not named by you know he was not
imposed this is a man who now is at the
helm of Hamas by the vote of those with
him in leadership ranks many that we
know but many more that we don't know
about what about the response do you
think from Palestinians in the the
occupied West Bank from fata for
instance I mean they prepared to get
behind a figure like Yaya sinoa given
his proximity to hamas's military Wing
in Gaza
well fat finds itself in a in a very
interesting position since the beginning
of this war it has not been able to
perform to rise to the occasion if you
will that's according to many observers
and many within the fat movement have
been very critical of the fact that the
fat movement itself has taken a back
seat it has not been vocal it has talked
about the importance of unity it has
talked about the importance of ending
the war but as a movement as a
long-standing movement in the Palestine
National Liberation it hasn't had any
prominent role during this war and so
now it can only welcome the election of
a new leader for the Hamas movement how
they will deal with that in the coming
days and weeks will be very interesting
particularly as you said because yya
senir is being pursued their relations
will be primarily with the Hamas leaders
above ground outside of the occupied
territory Pro because the leaders here
in the West Bank are mostly also been
imprisoned by Israel so they will deal
with the Hamas leaders outside of uh of
Palestine knowing full full well that
the final say will be in Gaza and will
be from yya senir all right no many
thanks for that reminder of the breaking
news this hour Hamas has named uh the
group Gaza leader Yaya Sina as its new
political Chief following the
assassination of isma hania on July the
31st let's bring in maen Bashar
J senior political analyst he joins us
by Skype from Paris Maran please put
this into context for us because I mean
how controversial is this appointment of
Yaya sinoa given that he is of course
one of Israel's Most Wanted
men well you know as you know on the
record Israel has declared that every
Hamas leader is a Target and they
threatened warned that they will
assassinate all of Hamas leaders whether
they are inside or outside so I'm not
I'm not sure that's controversial on
that that side of it because Israel was
not going to let anyone off the hook
after October
7 uh but if it's not controversial then
what I to my mind it's Defiance that's
what it is uh if the answer to the
question that they what is the day after
well Hamas just answered the day after
Gaza it's is Gaza the day after Gaza
it's Hamas in Gaza and the day after
Gaza it's sinir on the Helm of Hamas in
Gaza I think that's the answer that
basically Hamas is is providing to its
own ranks but also to Israel and the
Arab world if uh Hamas leaders have had
difficulty finding a home for themselves
or finding shelter or finding a safe
place anywhere in the Middle East well
now it's clear that that the the top
leader is right there somewhere in the
tunnels of Gaza resisting so again then
resistance is is the answer now as to
your uh um sort of more political
question about uh sinir and where he
stands you know before October 7 when
Israel was blocking all uh all the
venues to a diplomatic solution senir is
on the record telling his support
that Hamas accepts a two-state solution
and the return of the refugees so let's
wait and see what Israel does at the
time but of course Israel does not
accept a two-state solution will not let
the refugees back in and will continue
to tet Hamas as it has been in fact so I
think in terms of the consequences I
don't think it's going to make much of a
difference for Hamas in terms of Israel
it will make uh you know a big
difference now for it to understand that
Defiance and resistance and
steadfastness is the way forward for the
Islamic group I I understand it not
making much of a difference for Hamas
philosophically politically and what the
group aspires towards but as you say
Maran um he is a man who may well be in
the tunnels of Gaza as opposed to isma
hania who was able to travel here to
Qatar to Iran to Russia to China he's
very much been a public figure uh in in
the open uh how would things work do we
imagine when it comes to ongoing
negotiations with uh with the
intermediaries in all of
this well in fact you know it was to a
large degree it was that was the
intermediary and Israel killed him right
and the decision was more or less in the
hands of those in the tunnels uh the
past several months and I think it
remains so in as far as envoys and and
diplomacy movements around the world and
gardening support I think there are
enough of the
Hamas um you know legislative and
executive body out out there on on the
outside uh to be able to do that but I
think once again the message is that
this is all about resistance to fastness
at this point in time rather than more
of the you know diplomatic acrobatics if
you will if you will that would probably
don't don't lead to much at this point
in time I think the focus on Gaza and
the focus in sunir is a major signal of
defiance and of the fact that Hamas was
not about to lose Gaza and that Hamas is
going to remain a power within Gaza and
hence its leader is
there interesting of course that this
comes after the assassination of is
hania who was in Iran the guest of the
Iranian uh State there at the crucial uh
handing over of power to the country's
new
leader Iran has promised a response
hasn't it to that assassination I wonder
whether this as you say show of defiance
and appointing Yaya sinoa was directly
linked is directly calibrated to the way
in which isma hania
died yes yes uh to a large degree I
think it just tells you that Hamas is
choices in this region in the Middle
East region are you know are not are not
easy and they're not numerous and in the
end of the day after seven months of
genocide in Gaza the idea that uh you
know the leadership needs to be there
where the people are suffering I think
it's an interesting decision that I
think will be
taken not lightly uh even by the ranks
in Gaza so you know people are suffering
Gaza and so is the leadership within
Gaza at the help there with the people
resisting the Israeli genocide now Iran
of course is a bit of a separate
question here in terms of its response I
think it will respond the response will
be maybe a one time or maybe bit more
but it's going to be limited in in time
and scope Israel is more worried about
the response coming from Hezbollah in
fact at this point in time that it is at
the response from Iran is almost
predictable
unless of course Iran surprises us all
and carries a whole other qualitative
kind of response to the Han
assassination but I think the entire
region now is in a bit of a you know
well not exactly nervous breakdown but
certainly it's certainly there at the at
the brink and everyone is waiting
including the many in Israel about
what's going to happen next what will be
the response and then what will be the
response of Israel to the respon resp of
the Iranians and the and the and hisbah
as well as that of
Hamas so the once again the decision to
appoint sinir uh could you know be seen
as a smack of desperation but it could
also be interpreted as one of
steadfastness and heroism and being in
touch with the people in Gaza if this is
indeed as you say a message of defiance
then it is one that the United States
will have to work out a respons to of
course Washington says it's engaged in
intense diplomacy pretty much around the
clock uh that's the quote from the White
House at least to help calm tensions
says the White House at the same time
the Israeli military says that us sencom
Commander General Killa is in Israel for
quote joint preparations it seems like
diplomacy on the one hand and Military
preparations are hand in glove at the
moment and I wonder to what extent the
addition of Sina into all of that will
mean
you know that's why the you know the
only concept that comes to mind the only
metaphor that I have I've have had the
past several months is pyromaniac
firemen the United States uh in its
support to Israel in its unconditional
support of Israel arming it financing it
and shielding it is definitely leading
to further escalation in the region
leading to more death and destruction in
Palestine and Elsewhere on the other
hand um its attempt at diplomacy and its
pressure on various partners and allies
in the region including Egypt and qar
and others to you know to try to reach
some kind of a ceasefire uh deal and to
build on that towards something larger
you know is the is the firemen uh you
know aspect of the of the Pyromania
firemen so it's a bit of a it's a bit of
a you know um what's the word for that
it's a bit of a puzzle you know in a
way and in a sense leaving it to
Netanyahu to decide what the American
policy should be and basically netan has
gone Rong uh the past several weeks and
months not listening to Biden not
listening to the Biden Administration
not even uh accepting any of its advice
rather humiliating it once and again
taking up uh the assassination of these
two main leaders after he returned from
Washington and continuously adding red
lines to the negotiations that are
happening in Doha and Cairo as well as
basically killing the the negotiating
partner is Han and and all the rest of
it is definitely putting the Americans
in a bind and so Biden instead of
calling Netanyahu and say you know wrap
it up Mr Netanyahu or otherwise he's
calling you know the the the the the
other allies including the kar Amir the
president of Egypt and probably others
in the region in order to ramp up
support for diplomacy I'm not sure it's
going to be easy for those who were put
in a bind by the assassination they
could do much today if nael continues to
add to their okay Maran just stand by
for a moment because you you mentioned
that call between Biden and uh Regional
leaders the White House has just
released a statement saying US President
Joe Biden has had a call with katar zir
shik tamin B mammad Alani it says they
addressed their efforts to deescalate
Regional tensions including through an
immediate ceasefire and hostage release
deal President Biden and shik tamim
agreed on the urgency of bringing the
process to closure as soon as possible
both leaders and their teams agreed to
remain in close coordination over the
coming days Maran what should we read
into this call for close coordination
uh between the leader of Qatar obviously
a key mediator in the hopes of bringing
an end to the conflict in Gaza and
Washington well I'm I'm hoping you know
there are a few interpretation I'm
hoping that President Biden is lending
support to the to his Arab allies uh
because Netanyahu has been undermining
them you know Netanyahu has undermined
the negotiations in Qatar metan has even
incited through his very allies against
the leaderships in Q and other places
basically the task of of mediating has
been thankless uh and I really it's you
know the Kari patience is admirable the
steadfastness is admirable in you know
continuously trying to get this same
deal done while being continuously
undermined by Netanyahu so hopefully
this would be more of an attempt by
Biden to support you know his Arab
allies in the St and maybe this will be
followed by another call to nany to say
Mr nany you need to W it up in the
process and as the K prime minister said
you know this is really undermines any
uh attempt at at concluding a Seas fire
deal when Israel continues to carry
assassination the did continues to kill
Palestinians day in day out continues to
expand its Killing Spree to the West
Bank and expand the war now to to
Lebanon and and and elsewhere it's not
going to be possible to reach a deal
when Netanyahu continuously re
humiliates everyone including the
Americans the the Egyptians the kataris
and and you know everyone else all right
Maran many thanks for that Mar and
bashara alaz Senior political analyst
and reminder of course of the breaking
news this hour that Hamas has announced
Yaya Sina as head of its new political
Bureau replacing is hania who of course
was assassinated in an air strike in
tran on July the
31st make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from Al
jaaz